=head1 NAME

B<aLid.conf> File of aLid's Configuration

=head1 SYNOPSIS

aLid [OPTIONS]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

It allows to configure aLid. There are four kinds of options: SCRIPT, OTHER_SCRIPT, RULE and STATEFUL_FILTER.

=over 8

OPTION=SPECIFICS

=back

This form is followed of specifications pertinents to option indicate. Options SCRIPT, OTHER_SCRIPT and RULE are described in a only line. 

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<MAIL_SERVER>

It is the ip address of server, used to send notific's email. It is advisable to insert MX server of own subnet. Otherwise if it specifies any server MX, needs to modify present script /etc/aLid/sendmail with purpose of consent the authentication.

=item B<SCRIPT> 

Each option of script type describes the execution of a script at the beginning of application. Scripts invoked by this option are called in the same way in which they are specified. Option script must respect the following syntax: 

=over 8

	SCRIPT=FILENAME [ARGV] [INPUT_FILE=FILENAME2]

=back

If script read from particular file in input, for use potentialities of share's reading, is opportune to specific files by the option.

=over 8

	INPUT_FILE=FILENAME

=back

Another shrewdness to observ on scripts is to define reading ( to input file ) to <STDIN>; in this way script B<sharedTail> may send file's line to applicant script.

=item B<STATEFUL_FILTER> 

More info: see statefulProtect

=item B<RULE> 

Each option of kind RULE describes a rule that will be observed by aLid. A rule is a set of informations that allow to aLid to intercept a particular event in log's file and allow to take precautions. Each rule has the following syntax:

=over 8
					
RULE=EVT_NAME REG_EXPRESSION RANGE EVT_BOUND RED_BOUND ALLOWED_FILE NOTIFY FILTER [FREQ_EMAIL] INPUT_FILE 

=over 8

=item EVT_NAME

It specifics the event's name in which is associated a rule. The name of event allows to indentify the rule, that send a notific or drop's rule. The name of event is unambiguous in all rules.

=item REG_EXPRESSION

A regular expression allows to verify the presence of specified character inside of each line of file in input. When a file's line matches the regular expression so it is considered as presentation of monitored event. 

=item RANGE

It is the value, in seconds, of the temporal window to analyze. If N is the value of range, the temporal window to analyze is [ NOW - N , NOW ].

=item EVT_BOUND

It's the maximun number of times that the found event can verifies inside of temporal window(RANGE). Source ip, findable on log file, is considered responsible. At the overcoming of threshold, depending on configuration, can block source ip or simply notify what is happened. If an ip is blocked, there is also a mark of the moment in which it happens with reference to universal time (UTC) in seconds. 

=item RED_BOUND

It is the number of seconds in which an blocked ip can't communicate through machine where is installed the program. When the redemption's source is reached blocked ip is unlocked. The overcoming is calculated in the following way:

=over 8

IF ( NOW - BLOCKING_TIME > RED_BOUNG ) 
	UNLOCK BLOCKED IP 
ELSE
	BLOCKED IP REMAINS BLOCKED

=back

=item ALLOWED_FILE

It is file's path where are listed allowed ip.

=item NOTIFY

There are 4 kinds of notific option: MAIL, LOG, ALL, NOTHING.
		
=over 8

=item MAIL

Send a notific email to all addresses specified on file /etc/aLid/email.conf

=item LOG

Allows to write a line on log file of application.

=item ALL

Include both notify's typologies MAIL e LOG.

=item NOTHING

No notification

=back
	
=item FILTER

It specifics the policy to adopt considering ip detected. Options accepted are:  B<DROP> and B<NODROP>.

=over 8

=item DROP

It blocks detected ip in the firewall applying a specific rule.

=item NODROP

It doesn't execute a rule of drop in the firewall.

=back
			
=item [FREQ_EMAIL]

It specifics the attendance send of notifics mail in seconds. It's optional and subordinate at the presence of options MAIL or LOG.

=item INPUT_FILE

Input file where a rule is applied. Needs to respect following syntax:

=over 8				

INPUT_FILE=FILE_PATH

=back

where FILE_PATH is file's path in which are applied rule.

=back

=back

=back

=head1 IMPLEMENTATION

Each rule is applied by esecution of a parametric script:

=over 8

	/var/aLid/script/eventProtect EVT_NAME REG_EXPRESSION RANGE EVT_BOUND RED_BOUND ALLOWED_FILE NOTIFY FILTER [FREQ_EMAIL]

=back

For allow an efficient reading, that is read from file of input, passed by <STDIN> using another script (B<sharedTail>) that allows share's reading on the same file.

=head1 EXAMPLES

An example of file's definition /etc/aLid/aLid.conf

=over 8

MAIL_SERVER = out.virgilio.it

# List of default scripts

SCRIPT=/etc/aLid/script/synProtect 10 5 7 /etc/aLid/ip_blocked_synprotect all drop 1

SCRIPT=/etc/aLid/script/arpProtect all drop FILE_INPUT=/var/lib/arpwatch/arp.dat
SCRIPT=yes hello > /dev/null																			

RULE=SPAM \sDPT=25\s 5 10 5 7 /etc/aLid/ip_allowed_SPAMMING all drop FILE_INPUT=/var/log/iptables.log

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 8

=item B</etc/aLid/emails.conf>

File in which are specified email's addresses and where are send notific's mails.

=item B</etc/aLid/log>

File in which are saved informations relative to detected events by application.

=back 

=head1 REQUIREMENT

=over 8

=item B<arpwatch> 

Arpwatch - http://www.securityfocus.com/tools/142

=item B<DateTime> 

DateTime - Perl Library of cpan community

=item B<iptables> 

iptables - Stateful firewall

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

aLid, eventProtect, sharedTail

=head1 AUTHOR

Andrea Martire (andreamartire@gmail.com)

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright © 2010 Andrea Martire <andreamartire@gmail.com>. 
License  GPLv3+:  GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This  is  free  software:  you  are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

